So far we have been defining all our variables
manually in the code. Like here we have the radius
variable that we define here to be 100 and then
we use it in the code. But as we are generating
more complex layouts, it's interesting to use
input to change certain parameters as the code
is already running. You can use this, to create
different variations, test out different inputs,
to change the layout and the design and thereby
inspect what might be the optimal input here.
To do this, we can use a couple of
different input methods. The first one,
that i'm going to show you are input fields.
These are basically HTML input forms, that we
can access to get certain parameters. Let's start
with with the most simple one, the text input.
This is simply a text field, where you can enter
a text or number and then you can use the input as
the code is running to change the layout. For our
input fields we first need to create a variable,
ideally in the "global scope". Let's call our
variable textInput and then in the setup function,
we can now actually create our input field
and we will store it in our variable.
The function name is simply createInput. In
the brackets, we can define the default value.
Let's now say this is 100. And then we can
also define where this should be positioned.
And i will just place it below our sketch and we
can also tell the system how big this should be.
I will just say 50 pixels. And now we can
get the current value of our input field. We
can use it here, through the value command. It
simply uses the textInput again. The textInput
on the "global scope" is used to reference our
input field. We just use the value command and
now get the current value inside our text field.
i save this and now as i change this. Immediately
the code applies this new input
and changes the size of our circle.